---
country: "india"
university: "mahatma-gandhi-university"
branch: "business-administration-honours"
version: "2024"
semester: "2"
course_code: "MG2CCRBBA101"
course_title: "marketing-management"
language: "english"
contributor: "@Amendamaria"
---
# MG2CCRBBA101 - Marketing Management

 The marketing management course is designed to help undergraduate students gain a broad, foundational understanding of the basic components of modern marketing.  It will equip the students with an understanding of the Marketing Mix elements.  The course is intended to introduce key principles and activities crucial to the role that marketing has in an organisation.  

---
## Course Objectives

*  Understand fundamental marketing concepts, theories, and principles; understand the role of marketing in the organisation's context.  
*  Understand consumer behaviour and apply the principles of segmentation, targeting, and positioning.  
*  To develop a basic marketing mix and marketing strategy. 
*  Understand the contemporary trends in marketing. 
---
## Syllabus Modules

### Module 1: Fundamental marketing concepts, theories and principles (11 Hrs)
*  Meaning, Definition, Nature, Scope and Importance of Marketing.  
*  Marketing concepts (Production, Product, Selling, Marketing, Societal, Holistic).  
*  Marketing Environment: Micro and Macro Environment (Indian context).  
*  Market and Types of market (B2C, B2G, B2B, C2C).  
### Module 2: Segmentation, Targeting and Positioning and Understanding Consumer Behaviour (16 hrs)
*  Segmentation, Targeting and Positioning: Concept, Levels, Basis for Segmenting Consumer Markets.  
*  Consumer Behaviour, Consumer VS customer, Stimulus-Response Model.  
*  Factors affecting buyer behaviour (Cultural, Social, Personal, Psychological).  
*  Consumer Buying Decision Process.  

### Module 3: Marketing Mix (27 hrs)
*  Product decisions: Product Life Cycle (PLC), Product Classification, Product Line & Mix Decisions, Branding, Packaging & Labelling, New Product Development. 
*  Pricing Decisions: Determinants of Price, Pricing Methods and strategies.  
*  Promotion Decisions: Promotion mix, Promotional Tools (Advertisement, Sales Promotion, Public Relations, Personal Selling).  
*  Marketing Channel Decision: Channel functions, Levels, Types of Intermediaries.  

### Module 4: Service Marketing and Contemporary Trends (9 hrs)
*  Marketing of Services: unique characteristics, marketing strategies for service firms - 7Ps.  
*  Marketing Ethics, Contemporary issues in Marketing.  
*  Contemporary Trends: E-commerce, Digital, Integrated, Guerilla, Rural, Social, Green, AI in Marketing (Introductory aspects).  

---
## References
* Kotler P., Keller K., et al. *Marketing Management* (16th edition). Pearson Education Pvt. Ltd. 
* Aaker, D. A. and Moorman Christine., *Strategic Market Management: Global Perspectives*.John Wiley & Sons.
* Shainesh G. Kotler Philip, et al. *Marketing Management*. Pearson Higher Education. 
* Kotler, P., Armstrong, G., and Agnihotri, P. Y. *Principles of Marketing* (17th edition). Pearson Education. 
* Ramaswamy, V.S. & Namakumari, S. *Marketing Management: Indian Context Global Perspective* (6th edition). Sage Publications India Pvt. Ltd.
* Chaffey, D., & Ellis-Chadwick, F. *Digital Marketing* (7th edition). Pearson Higher Education. 