---
country: "india"
university: "mahatma-gandhi-university"
branch: "social-work"
version: "2017"
semester: "2"
course_code: "sw2cmt06"
course_title: "general-psychology"
language: "english"
contributor: "@Luffy0016"
---
# SW2CMT06 - General Psychology

This course provides a foundational understanding of the dynamics of human behavior, mental processes, personality theories, and psychological disorders, with a focus on their relevance to social work practice.

---
## Course Objectives

* To help the students to understand the dynamics of behaviour in terms of heredity and environment as shapers of personality.
* To help the students to gain an insight into the components of general psychology.
* To introduce the students to the basic mechanism of mental processes.

---
## Syllabus Modules

### Module 1: Fundamentals of Psychology (22 hours)
* Definition, branches of Psychology, scope and methods.
* Sensation and Perception, Consciousness and levels of consciousness.
* Learning: Definitions, theories (Classical conditioning, Instrumental, Operational, insight, Observational).
* Memory: Definition, process, types.
* Cognition: Thinking, Reasoning, Problem solving, Decision making and Language.

### Module 2: Motivation and Intelligence (18 hours)
* Motivation: Definition, theories (Drive, Incentive, Opponent process, optimal level, Maslow's theory).
* Intelligence: Definition, theories (Factor, Gardner's, Process oriented), Assessment of Intelligence (IQ tests).
* Individual differences and Intelligence: Heredity and Environment.

### Module 3: Theories of Personality (18 hours)
* Psychoanalytical theory (Sigmund Freud).
* Psycho-social theory (Eric Erickson).
* Client Centred Theory (Carl Roger).
* Self-Actualization Theory (Abraham Maslow).

### Module 4: Mental Health and Disorders (12 hours)
* Concept of Mental Health: Definition, characteristics and constituents.
* Psychological Disorders: Mental retardation, mental and behavioural disorders (OCD, Schizophrenia and Mood Disorders).

### Module 5: Conflict and Stress (12 hours)
* Conflict and its types.
* Stress Management Techniques.

---
## References
* Ahuja, N. A. (1995) *A Short Textbook of Psychiatry*. New Delhi: Jaypee Brothers.
* Crider, et al. (1989). *Psychology*. New York: Scott. Foresman.
* Fellin, P. (1996). *Mental Health and Mental Illness*. Illinois: FEPeackck.
* Fernald, L. D. & Fernald, P. S.(1999). *Introduction to Psychology*. New Delhi: AITBS Publishers.
* Kaila, et al. (2001). *Stress Management: Western and Indian Techniques*. Mumbai: Himalaya Publishers.
* Mangal, S. K. (2006). *General Psychology*. New Delhi: Sterling.
* Morgan, et al. (1997). *Introduction to Psychology*. New York: McCraw-Hillbook Co.