---
country: "india"
university: "mahatma-gandhi-university"
branch: "business-administration-honours"
version: "2024"
semester: "1"
course_code: "MG1MDEBBA100"
course_title: "indian-systems-of-health-and-wellness"
language: "english"
contributor: "@Amendamaria"
---
# MG1MDEBBA100 - Indian Systems of Health and Wellness

[cite_start]This course aims to emphasize the significance of maintaining a healthy lifestyle by educating students on the essential aspects of physical and mental well-being. [cite: 1669] [cite_start]It seeks to raise awareness about lifestyle-related diseases and equips students with knowledge and strategies for effective stress management. [cite: 1669]

---
## Course Objectives

* [cite_start]To understand the importance of a healthy lifestyle. [cite: 1669]
* [cite_start]To familiarize students about physical and mental health. [cite: 1669]
* [cite_start]To create an awareness of various lifestyle related diseases. [cite: 1669]
* [cite_start]To provide understanding of stress management. [cite: 1669]

---
## Syllabus Modules

### Module 1: Introduction to Health & Wellness
* [cite_start]Definition of Health, Importance of health in everyday life. [cite: 1682]
* [cite_start]Components of health: physical, social, mental, spiritual and its relevance. [cite: 1682]
* [cite_start]Concept of wellness, Mental health and wellness, Determinants of health behaviour, Health and Wellness at work place. [cite: 1682]

### Module 2: Mind Body and Well-Being
* [cite_start]Mind body connection in health concept and relation, Implications of mind- body connection. [cite: 1682]
* Wellbeing why it matters? [cite_start]Digital wellbeing. [cite: 1682]

### Module 3: Deficiency & Diseases
* [cite_start]Malnutrition, under nutrition and over nutrition, Body system and common diseases. [cite: 1682]
* [cite_start]Sedentary lifestyle and risk of disease, Modern lifestyle and associated health risks. [cite: 1682]

### Module 4: Indian system of well being
* [cite_start]Health beliefs of India, Health systems in India AYUSH. [cite: 1682]
* [cite_start]Perspective of indigenous people towards health, happiness and well-being in India. [cite: 1682]

---
## References
* Carr, A. *Positive Psychology: The science of happiness and human strength*. [cite_start]UK: Routledge. [cite: 1719, 1720]
* [cite_start]Nyambichu, C. & Lumiri, Jeff, *Lifestyle Disease: Lifestyle Disease management*. [cite: 1721]