---
country: "india"
university: "mahatma-gandhi-university"
branch: "social-work"
version: "2017"
semester: "6"
course_code: "sw6crt24"
course_title: "social-work-practice-with-children"
language: "english"
contributor: "@Luffy0016"
---
# SW6CRT24 - Social Work Practice with Children

This course focuses on understanding child development, the myriad issues and disorders affecting children, and the application of social work methods, laws, and policies for their care and protection.

---
## Course Objectives

* To understand the key concepts related to child development and social work with children.
* To impart to the trainee, specific social work intervention methods in dealing with children.
* To create an understanding about the national laws and policies related to children.
* To understand the problems faced by the children.

---
## Syllabus Modules

### Module 1: Child Development
* Physical, Social, Emotional and Cognitive Development in Infancy and Toddlerhood, Early Childhood, Middle Childhood and Adolescence.

### Module 2: Issues and Disorders Affecting Children
* Issues faced by Children: Abuse, Violence, Street Children, Child Marriage, Child Labour, Trafficking, etc.
* Childhood Disorders: Conduct Disorders, Anxiety Disorders, Depression, Learning Disabilities, etc.

### Module 3: Process of Helping Children
* Building Relationships, Assessment, intervention, follow up and evaluation.

### Module 4: National Laws and Policies for Children
* Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act.
* The Right of Children to Free and Compulsory Education Act, 2009.
* Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act (2000).
* Child Labour (Prohibition and Regulation) Act.
* National Policy for Children, and other relevant acts.

### Module 5: Methods of Working with Children
* Working with Family, Play Therapy, Group Work with Children.
* School based interventions, Life Skill Trainings.
* Government Services: Childline, DCPU, School Counsellors.

---
## References
* AysheTalay-Ongan, E. A. (2005). *Child Development and Teaching Young Children*. Australia: Cengage Learning.
* Berger, K. S. (2000). *The Developing Person*. New York: Worth Publications.
* Carolyn Spray, B. J. (2011). *Social Work Practice with Children and Families*. SAGE.
* Dean Hepworth, et al. (2009). *Direct Social Work Practice: Theory and Skills*. Cengage Learning.
* Eric J. Mash, R. A. (2006). *Treatment of Childhood Disorders*. Guilford Press.
* Gifford, C. (2009). *Child Labour*. Evans Brothers.
* Nancy Boyd Webb (2011). *Social Work Practice with Children*, Third Edition: Guilford Press.
* Ridge, T. (2002). *Childhood Poverty and Social Exclusion: From a Child's Perspective*. Policy Press.