---
country: "india"
university: "mahatma-gandhi-university"
branch: "social-work"
version: "2017"
semester: "6"
course_code: "sw6get27"
course_title: "social-work-practice-with-elderly"
language: "english"
contributor: "@Luffy0016"
---
# SW6GET27 - Social Work Practice with Elderly

This course provides a comprehensive understanding of the key concepts, issues, theories, policies, and social work interventions related to the elderly population.

---
## Course Objectives

* To understand the key concepts related to aging and social work with elderly.
* To equip students with necessary skills in social work with elderly.
* To create an understanding about the laws policies and programmes related to elderly.
* To understand the theoretical framework of working with elderly.

---
## Syllabus Modules

### Module 1: The Meaning and Concept of Old Age (12 hours)
* Elderly: Definition and Characteristics. Physical, biological and social changes.
* Population ageing: Global, India, and Kerala scenario.
* World Assembly on Ageing, International day for elderly.

### Module 2: Issues and Challenges of Elderly (14 hours)
* Life expectancy, Demographic transition.
* Key Issues: Depression, Dementia, Alzheimer, Empty nest syndrome, Isolation, Abuse, Generation gap.
* Grant parenting, Widowhood, Death, Bereavement, Euthanasia.

### Module 3: Theories of Aging (16 hours)
* Role Theory, Disengagement Theory, Continuity Theory.
* Age Stratification Theory, Social Exchange Theory.
* Critical Theory & Feminist Perspectives.

### Module 4: Laws, Policies & Programs for Elderly (20 hours)
* Senior Citizen (Maintenance, Care and Protection) Act-2007.
* National Policy on Older People (NPOP)-1999 and National Policy on Senior Citizen 2011.
* National Council for Older Persons (NCOP).
* Integrated Programmes for the Older Persons, Indira Gandhi National Old Age Pension Scheme (IGNOPS).
* Institutions and organizations for elderly in Kerala.

### Module 5: Social Work Practice with Elderly (10 hours)
* Application of Case work, Group Work and Community Organization for practice with Elderly.
* Role of Social Worker: Assessment and Care Management.
* Skills required and Multidisciplinary Teamwork in Working with Elderly.

---
## References
* Dandekar, Kumudini(1996). *The Elderly in India*. Sage Publications India, New Delhi.
* Hurlock, Elizabeth B. (1980). *Developmental Psychology. A Life Span Approach*. McGraw-Hill Companies.
* Greene, Roberta R(1986). *Social work with Aged &their Families*. Aldine de Gruyter, New York.
* Hooyman, Nancy & Kiyak, H. Asuman (1999). *Social Gerontology*. Allyn and Bacon.
* Lymberg, Mark, (2007). *Social Work with Older People*. Sage Publications, New Delhi.
* Rajan, S. Irudaya, Mishra U.S &Sarma, Sankara.P (1999). *India's Elderly: Burden or Challenge?* Sage Publications India Pvt. Ltd., New Delhi.