---
country: "india"
university: "mahatma-gandhi-university"
branch: "social-work"
version: "2017"
semester: "4"
course_code: "sw4cmt16"
course_title: "management-concepts-and-skills-for-social-work-practice"
language: "english"
contributor: "@Luffy0016"
---
# SW4CMT16 - Management concepts and skills for social work practice

This course aims to provide students with a basic understanding of management concepts, principles, and processes, and their application within organizational settings relevant to social work.

---
## Course Objectives

* To develop a basic understanding about the management concepts and principles.
* To understand the different theoretical approaches to management.
* To be familiar with the motivating factors and skills in working in teams in an organisation.
* To understand the dynamism of an organization including the administrative structures, processes and procedures.

---
## Syllabus Modules

### Module 1: Introduction to Management (10 hours)
* Definition, Principles, Concepts of Management.
* Managerial functions, administration, human service administration.
* Management Communication: Communication network, MIS, Public relation.

### Module 2: Management Process I (20 hours)
* Planning & Decision making: Process and techniques.
* Organizing: importance, types, process, principles, organizational structure.
* HR management: Staffing, human resource planning, Job analysis, Recruitment, selection, training.

### Module 3: Management Process II (14 hours)
* Employee rights: remuneration, incentives, P.F., insurance, pension schemes etc.
* Motivation of staff: significance, theories.
* Leading/Directing: meaning and importance.
* Leadership: types, theories.
* Controlling and Reporting.

### Module 4: Organizational Behavior and Organizational Development (20 hours)
* Organizational Behaviour, Job satisfaction, Job enrichment.
* Organizational Development, Conflict resolution, creating positive climate.
* Organizational change: Concept, forces of change and resistance to change.

### Module 5: Management training for social work practitioners (8 hours)
* Significance of Management training for Social Work Practitioners.
* NGO Management.
* Role and tasks of a manager, managerial skills.

---
## References
* Rao V.S.P & Narayana P.S. *Principles and Practice of Management*, Konark Publishers Pvt. Ltd.
* Rao V.S.P (2005). *Human Resource Management Text and Cases* (2nd edition). Excel Books, Delhi.
* Rao V.S.P (2009). *Organizational Behavior*, Excel Books, Delhi.
* Rao V.S.P (2012). *Management Text and Cases* (2nd edition). Excel Books, Delhi.